README.md, before:

[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# DevOps-101-Resources

<p align="center">
  <img width="360" src="roadmap.jpeg">
</p>

A collection of selected online resources that will help prepare you for the ever-evolving world of DevOps. The aim of this public repository is to provide a list of learning resources, advice and project samples to those who are new to the world of DevOps. Contributions are welcome :)

- If you wish to contribute, please raise an issue, or make a pull request for fixes, new additions, or updates. Thank you!

## FUNDAMENTALS

### Linux

- [Linux Mastery - Paid](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-mastery/) -
- [The Complete Linux Course: Beginner to Power User! - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBp0Rb-ZJak)

### Python

- [fdfd](https://www.udemy.com/course/automate/) (Paid) (RECOMMENDED)

- [COMPLETE PYTHON BOOTCAMP - PAID - SUPPLEMENTARY](https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-python-bootcamp/) 

- [Learn Python - Full Course for Beginners Tutorial - FREE - RECOMMENDED](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rfscVS0vtbw) (FREE) (RECOMMENDED)

- [Python Tutorial for Beginners - Learn Python in 5 Hours FULL COURSE - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8pPdKYpowI) 

- [Python Institute Certifications - FREE - PAID](https://pythoninstitute.org/certification/) 

### Amazon Web Services (AWS)

- [AWS Digital Courses by Jon Bonso (FREE)](https://portal.tutorialsdojo.com/product-category/aws/aws-digital-courses-2/)

- [AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Training 2020 - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hLmDS179YE)

- [Ultimate AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner - 2021 - PAID - PERSONAL FAVOURITE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-cloud-practitioner-new/) 

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate 2020 - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia-UEYYR44s)

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate - PAID](https://learn.cantrill.io/p/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-saa-c02)

-  [AWS Certified Developer - Associate 2020 - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RrKRN9zRBWs)

- [AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-cloud-practitioner-practice-exams-amazon/) 

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICCE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-amazon-practice-exams-saa-c02/) 

- [AWS Certified Developer Associate Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-developer-associate-practice-exams-amazon/) 
 
### Microsoft Azure:

- [Microsoft Azure Fundamentals Certification Course - FREE -AZ900](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKEFWyqJ5XA) 

- [Azure Administrator Certification - FREE - AZ104](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10PbGbTUSAg) 

- [Microsoft Azure Exam AZ-900 Certification - Azure Fundamentals 900 - Paid — WhizLabs EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.whizlabs.com/microsoft-azure-certification-az-900/) 

- [Microsoft Azure Exam AZ-104 Certification - Azure Admin Associate 104 - Paid — WhizLabs EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.whizlabs.com/microsoft-azure-certification-az-104/) 

### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

-  [Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer - PAID](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-associate-cloud-engineer)

- [Google Cloud Digital Leader Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGRDM86MBIQ)

- [Google Cloud Professional Cloud Architect - PAID - GCP Professional Cloud Architect by Antoni Tzavelas](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-professional-cloud-architect)

### Git (version control)

- [Git Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE)

- [Git and GitHub for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGOj5yH7evk)

- [13 Advanced (but useful) Git Techniques and Shortcuts - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecK3EnyGD8o) 

### Networking fundamentals

- [Network Fundementals Playlists - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDQaRcbiSnqF5U8ffMgZzS7fq1rHUI3Q8) 

## ADVANCED

### Terraform

- [Terraform Course - Automate your AWS cloud infrastructure - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLB_c_ayRMo)

- [Terraform for DevOps Beginners + Labs: Complete Step by Step Guide - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YcJ9IeukJL8) 

- [HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate 2021 - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-beginner-to-advanced/) 

- [HashiCorp Terraform Associate Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4waklkBC38) 

- [Azure DevOps: Provision API Infrastructure using Terraform - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ff0DoAmpv6w&t=6032s) — Azure DevOps with Terraform

- [Ifrastrcuture as Code - Playlist - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLedHPfK7UwDJdS7zTgJv8PWR9UBcPbgUO) 

### Containers (Docker and Kubernetes aka K8s)

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners -FREE - Full Course - 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p28piYY_wv8)

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3c-iBn73dDE) 

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners - A Full DevOps Course on How to Run Applications in Containers - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqMOX6JJhGo)

- [Docker and Kubernetes Tutorial - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhBSlnQcq2k)

- [Kubernetes Tutorial for Beginners - K8s - FREE ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X48VuDVv0do) —

- [Docker and Kubernetes: The Complete Guide - FREE](https://www.udemy.com/course/docker-and-kubernetes-the-complete-guide/) 

- [Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginners - Hands-on - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-kubernetes/?src=sac&kw=kubernetes+for+abs) 

- [Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) with Practice Tests - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests/) 

- [Kubernetes Certified Administrator resource by Walid Shaari - FREE - CKA](https://github.com/walidshaari/Kubernetes-Certified-Administrator)

- [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist Rescource by Walid Shaari - FREE - CKS](https://github.com/walidshaari/Certified-Kubernetes-Security-Specialist)

### Continuous Integration, Continuous Development (CI/CD)

- [GitHub Actions Tutorial - Basic Concepts and CI/CD Pipeline with Docker - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R8_veQiYBjI)

- [GitLab CI: Pipelines, CI/CD and DevOps for Beginners - PAID ](https://www.udemy.com/course/gitlab-ci-pipelines-ci-cd-and-devops-for-beginners/) 

- [Jenkins Full Course - Jenkins Tutorial For Beginners - Jenkins Tutorial - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FX322RVNGj4) 

### Managed containers (EKS/AKS/GKE)

- [AWS EKS Kubernetes-Masterclass | DevOps, Microservices - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-eks-kubernetes-masterclass-devops-microservices/) 

- [Azure Kubernetes Service with Azure DevOps and Terraform - PAID - AKS](https://www.udemy.com/course/azure-kubernetes-service-with-azure-devops-and-terraform/) 

### More-open source tools and more things to consider learning

- [Free Practice Exams for AWS, GCP and Azure -  Free practice exams video by Andrew Brown - PAID](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4al_SZ6p5g) 

- [ArgoCD Kubernetes - PAID](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL34sAs7_26wMW4bWKnMIfEd87aPuw75by) 

- [Prometheus Tutorial - Monitoring with Prometheus And Grafana - Prometheus Grafana Tutorial - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gW5pSM6dlU) 

- [Learn Go Programming - Golang Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YS4e4q9oBaU) 

- [Ansible 101 by jeff Geerling - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2_OBreMn7FqZkvMYt6ATmgC0KAGGJNAN)

- [Kubernetes & Istio Service Mesh - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL34sAs7_26wPkw9g-5NQPP_rHVzApGpKP)

- [Creating your first Helm chart - Package management for K8s - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3GPpm2nZb2s) 

- [Google Cloud Digital Leader Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGRDM86MBIQ)

Commit message:

enhanced readme with github markdown

README.md, after:

[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# DevOps-101-Resources

<p align="center">
  <img width="360" src="roadmap.jpeg">
</p>

A collection of selected online resources that will help prepare you for the ever-evolving world of DevOps. The aim of this public repository is to provide a list of learning resources, advice and project samples to those who are new to the world of DevOps. Contributions are welcome :)

- If you wish to contribute, please raise an issue, or make a pull request for fixes, new additions, or updates. Thank you!

## FUNDAMENTALS

### Linux

- [Linux Mastery - Paid](https://www.udemy.com/course/linux-mastery/) -
- [The Complete Linux Course: Beginner to Power User! - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wBp0Rb-ZJak)

### Python

- [Automate the Boring Stuff with Python Programming - PAID - RECOMMENDED](https://www.udemy.com/course/automate/) (Paid) (RECOMMENDED)

- [COMPLETE PYTHON BOOTCAMP - PAID - SUPPLEMENTARY](https://www.udemy.com/course/complete-python-bootcamp/) 

- [Learn Python - Full Course for Beginners Tutorial - FREE - RECOMMENDED](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rfscVS0vtbw)

- [Python Tutorial for Beginners - Learn Python in 5 Hours FULL COURSE - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t8pPdKYpowI) 

- [Python Institute Certifications](https://pythoninstitute.org/certification/) 

### Amazon Web Services (AWS)

- [AWS Digital Courses by Jon Bonso (FREE)](https://portal.tutorialsdojo.com/product-category/aws/aws-digital-courses-2/)

- [AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Training 2020 - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hLmDS179YE)

- [Ultimate AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner - 2021 - PAID - PERSONAL FAVOURITE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-cloud-practitioner-new/) 

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate 2020 - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ia-UEYYR44s)

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect - Associate - PAID](https://learn.cantrill.io/p/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-saa-c02)

- [AWS Certified Developer - Associate 2020 - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RrKRN9zRBWs)

- [AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-cloud-practitioner-practice-exams-amazon/) 

- [AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICCE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-solutions-architect-associate-amazon-practice-exams-saa-c02/) 

- [AWS Certified Developer Associate Practice Exams - PAID - EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-developer-associate-practice-exams-amazon/) 
 
### Microsoft Azure:

- [Microsoft Azure Fundamentals Certification Course - FREE -AZ900](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKEFWyqJ5XA) 

- [Azure Administrator Certification - FREE - AZ104](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=10PbGbTUSAg) 

- [Microsoft Azure Exam AZ-900 Certification - Azure Fundamentals 900 - Paid — WhizLabs EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.whizlabs.com/microsoft-azure-certification-az-900/) 

- [Microsoft Azure Exam AZ-104 Certification - Azure Admin Associate 104 - Paid — WhizLabs EXAM PRACTICE](https://www.whizlabs.com/microsoft-azure-certification-az-104/) 

### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

-  [Google Cloud Associate Cloud Engineer - PAID](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-associate-cloud-engineer)

- [Google Cloud Digital Leader Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGRDM86MBIQ)

- [Google Cloud Professional Cloud Architect - PAID - GCP Professional Cloud Architect by Antoni Tzavelas](https://training.antonit.com/p/google-cloud-professional-cloud-architect)

### Git (version control)

- [Git Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8JJ101D3knE)

- [Git and GitHub for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGOj5yH7evk)

- [13 Advanced (but useful) Git Techniques and Shortcuts - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecK3EnyGD8o) 

### Networking fundamentals

- [Network Fundementals Playlists - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLDQaRcbiSnqF5U8ffMgZzS7fq1rHUI3Q8) 

## ADVANCED

### Terraform

- [Terraform Course - Automate your AWS cloud infrastructure - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLB_c_ayRMo)

- [Terraform for DevOps Beginners + Labs: Complete Step by Step Guide - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YcJ9IeukJL8) 

- [HashiCorp Certified: Terraform Associate 2021 - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/terraform-beginner-to-advanced/) 

- [HashiCorp Terraform Associate Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4waklkBC38) 

- [Azure DevOps: Provision API Infrastructure using Terraform - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ff0DoAmpv6w&t=6032s) — Azure DevOps with Terraform

- [Ifrastrcuture as Code - Playlist - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLedHPfK7UwDJdS7zTgJv8PWR9UBcPbgUO) 

### Containers (Docker and Kubernetes aka K8s)

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners -FREE - Full Course - 2021](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p28piYY_wv8)

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3c-iBn73dDE) 

- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners - A Full DevOps Course on How to Run Applications in Containers - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqMOX6JJhGo)

- [Docker and Kubernetes Tutorial - Full Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bhBSlnQcq2k)

- [Kubernetes Tutorial for Beginners - K8s - FREE ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X48VuDVv0do)

- [Docker and Kubernetes: The Complete Guide - FREE](https://www.udemy.com/course/docker-and-kubernetes-the-complete-guide/) 

- [Kubernetes for the Absolute Beginners - Hands-on - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/learn-kubernetes/?src=sac&kw=kubernetes+for+abs) 

- [Certified Kubernetes Administrator (CKA) with Practice Tests - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/certified-kubernetes-administrator-with-practice-tests/) 

- [Kubernetes Certified Administrator resource by Walid Shaari - FREE - CKA](https://github.com/walidshaari/Kubernetes-Certified-Administrator)

- [Certified Kubernetes Security Specialist Rescource by Walid Shaari - FREE - CKS](https://github.com/walidshaari/Certified-Kubernetes-Security-Specialist)

### Continuous Integration, Continuous Development (CI/CD)

- [GitHub Actions Tutorial - Basic Concepts and CI/CD Pipeline with Docker - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R8_veQiYBjI)

- [GitLab CI: Pipelines, CI/CD and DevOps for Beginners - PAID ](https://www.udemy.com/course/gitlab-ci-pipelines-ci-cd-and-devops-for-beginners/) 

- [Jenkins Full Course - Jenkins Tutorial For Beginners - Jenkins Tutorial - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FX322RVNGj4) 

### Managed containers (EKS/AKS/GKE)

- [AWS EKS Kubernetes-Masterclass | DevOps, Microservices - PAID](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-eks-kubernetes-masterclass-devops-microservices/) 

- [Azure Kubernetes Service with Azure DevOps and Terraform - PAID - AKS](https://www.udemy.com/course/azure-kubernetes-service-with-azure-devops-and-terraform/) 

### More-open source tools and more things to consider learning

- [Free Practice Exams for AWS, GCP and Azure -  Free practice exams video by Andrew Brown - PAID](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4al_SZ6p5g) 

- [ArgoCD Kubernetes - PAID](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL34sAs7_26wMW4bWKnMIfEd87aPuw75by) 

- [Prometheus Tutorial - Monitoring with Prometheus And Grafana - Prometheus Grafana Tutorial - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7gW5pSM6dlU) 

- [Learn Go Programming - Golang Tutorial for Beginners - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YS4e4q9oBaU) 

- [Ansible 101 by jeff Geerling - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2_OBreMn7FqZkvMYt6ATmgC0KAGGJNAN)

- [Kubernetes & Istio Service Mesh - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL34sAs7_26wPkw9g-5NQPP_rHVzApGpKP)

- [Creating your first Helm chart - Package management for K8s - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3GPpm2nZb2s) 

- [Google Cloud Digital Leader Certification Course - FREE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UGRDM86MBIQ)
